---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: 'Creatures Against Cancer was started by Lisa Hatfield and her three daughters, Chloe, Camille and Juliet. This is their story.'
datePublished: '2016-03-17T04:42:39.223Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-17T04:42:19.740Z'
title: Our Story
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-17-the-story.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: the-story/index.html
_type: Article

---
# Our Story

****

_Creatures Against Cancer was started by Lisa Hatfield and her three daughters, Chloe, Camille and Juliet. This is their story._

> Hi, I'm Lisa Hatfield and I survived cancer. 

I survived but I'm not the same person I was before. I was young, didn't smoke and lived a healthy lifestyle but at the age of 34 I was diagnosed with a rare form of salivary gland cancer. Luckily it was caught early enough for treatment. When people talk about surviving cancer they also mean surviving treatment, which is almost always a permanent change to your physical self and every other part of your life forever after. 
> 
> I was young, didn't smoke and lived a healthy lifestyle

My treatment was to go through a six hour surgery to remove the tumor followed by months of radiation. I didn't want radiation but I was told that if I didn't have radiation I would more than likely die. The doctors told me you can never be sure that all the cancerous cells are removed in surgery and that it could come back very aggressively.

> if I didn't have radiation I would more than likely die

The oncologist told me to look at my three girls, ages 3, 4 and 6 at the time, and prepare them for life without a mom. Needless to say I went through 35 rounds of radiation. These were the hardest, most grueling months of my life. I was tied down to a table and had my face locked in a mask while they radiated it. 

********

The first day I could feel, taste smell and hear the radiation. They say you can't smell, taste or hear it but I did. It made me sick every time I went in.  I felt like a monster. My face was not only burned, but deeply damaged. All the years of sunscreen, moisturizer and fancy creams down the drain. I took a picture right before radiation started and a picture a few weeks in and it doesn't look like the same girl. It felt selfish and vain but the radiation that was keeping me alive was also emotionally destroying me.

> It made me sick every time I went in. I felt like a monster.

Everyday I would go into the oncology office and sit and wait for the treatment to begin. The waiting room was the hardest part of every day. You see people go in the room and come out of the room and you wait for the doctor to call your name, all the while just trying to hold on and not visibly break down in front of everyone.

One day while waiting in the room I was digging through my purse for my phone to distract me and I found a stuffed animal made out of paper, cotton balls and tape. I knew one of my daughter's had made it and smiled, thinking about my precious girls, instead of the looming treatment. 
> 
> These small creatures the girls made me literally changed my treatment

When I got home my daughter Chloe asked me if I got the stuffed animal she made for me. I said yes, and that it was the best part of my morning. She said she wanted to make me a stuffed animal because I always gave her one when she was really sick. 

The next day I found another cute paper, tape and cotton ball stuffed animal from my older daughter Camille. A couple days later I found one from my youngest Juliet who told me she made it for me earlier but had to love it first before she gave it to me. 
> 
> They made me focus on the love of my family

I continued to get these cotton ball, tape and paper creatures throughout my treatment. These small creatures the girls made me literally changed my treatment. They made me focus on the love of my family and I felt so blessed that they took their time to make these and to love them before putting them in my purse. With God's good grace and the love of my husband and kids, I finished treatment and have been in remission ever since.

> I finished treatment and have been in remission ever since.

Last year my three girls told me they wanted to make "real" stuffed animals for other cancer mommies, daddies and kids to cheer them up. I told them it is a wonderful idea, I know how much I love what they made for me. I did ask them what they meant by "real" though and discovered that they wanted to use fabric and stuffing, stitched together.  I said we could get a sewing machine but they said no, they wanted to make their little creatures by hand with needle and thread. I did not have any experience with sewing so we learned how to do it together.

> > If there is anything I know for certain it's that love can change a life.
> 
> 

So stitch by stitch they started making little creatures, monsters and animals. They have been poked by needles and become frustrated when they "mess up" and the thread gets tangled. The girls have never said they wanted to stop though. When they finish an animal they say a prayer for the person it will go to and then they run upstairs and play with it and love it. Many times I have seen a stuffed creature in Juliet's backpack and it will go to school with her. The girls love on these creatures so much that many times we have to resew a tail or an arm back on them.

If there is anything I know for certain it's that love can change a life. Each animal is made with so much love and our hope is that it brings a moment of happiness, peace and or distraction to the person receiving it. 
> 
> These quirks though are what makes the creatures special and filled with love.

Our goal is to make as many creatures as we can and bring them to people battling cancer. We buy all the material and supplies ourselves to make these creatures. The girls have named their cause Creatures Against Cancer. We can only make so many creatures though as we have limited resources and money. 

If anyone would like to donate, we would put the donation towards making another creature come to life for a cancer patient. When a person gets a creature, it won't be "factory new." It will be hand sewn and loved by a little girl. The stitches won't be perfect, the shapes will often be odd and different and the stuffing might be coming out in places. These quirks though are what makes the creatures special and filled with love.

****